We are going to get into the nitty
gritty of building a food app with nuxt.
This is going to be building a real
life application with an API and
we're going to work with view x store and
learn all sorts of stuff.
So, why are we talking about Nuxt?
Nuxt is kind of this
meta framework on Vue.
If you're familiar with react has nuxt and
vue has nuxt.
So, without further ado, today,
we're gonna talk about, Nuxt, [LAUGH] I
use this code pen as an example because
there's also now next few other things.
I know that that's very confusing but
you can think of it as comparable to
react nuxt, truthfully though, they've
kind of branched off from each other.
I think it kind of started that way.
But now nuxt has its own community and
makes its own technical decisions.
And it's no longer just working
off of what nuxt js does anymore.
But you can similarly think about
it as a metaphor framework,
it's using view under the hood.
And then it's making some kind of
configuration assumptions for us and
it makes some things a little
bit nicer to work with and
you'll see why in just a minute.
So why are we working with it?
It has excellent performance, I kind
of covered this in the other course.
It does this thing called treeshaking.
It does things like code splitting.
I'll explain tree shaking in a moment.
It makes sure that your code is
as optimized as humanly possible.
It also allows us to kind of decide
what are compilation targets are, right?
We're able to say, okay,
we're gonna make a static build of this or
we're gonna use it from a server or
we're gonna use an SPA type of view.
And we're still going to make sure that
everything is server side rendered,
that everything is minified and
concatenated.
And that we have some nice
development things that we can work
with on the surface.
There's automatically
generated dynamic routes now,
this is actually a newer feature.
We It used to be that we
would create dynamic routes.
So you always couldn't make
dynamic routes with nuxt.
But you'd have to kind of
describe in a function like what
shape of that data you
would like it to hold?
How you would like it to generate?
And at this point, what it does now
is if you choose the target static,
it will take all of those routes.
If it sees a particular
page which will build,
it will actually create those for
you dynamically, which is really nice.
It creates automatic routing.
So even just between from page to page,
it will create a page for you.
And we're gonna be, I'll walk you through
that and show you what that looks like.
It does SSR and
jamstack and SPA rendering.
I should also mention that it is
able to use the composition API
after we build this food app.
Later on today,
we're gonna see the composition API
from view three in an app also.
So we're gonna look at the nuxt app
built with the composition API and
we'll do an exercise with that as well.
So after we get all done with this options
API view of nuxt, we'll use view three
composition API and nuxt,
It has some really elegant defaults there.
We're gonna go into how it uses pages and
layouts and things like that.
And what I really like about it is,
when I was a contractor,
I used to get clients that were working
with things in totally different ways.
And their code bases were set
up in totally different ways.
Because it has some elegant defaults and
default configuration,
I could jump into a next project and
immediately know where everything is.
It's kind of similar how when
you're working with you, you can
see the legibility of the distinction
between methods computed and watcher.
And you know exactly
what those things are.
Nuxt has some defaults like that to,
where you can jump into the code base.
And be like, this is a plugin,
it's registering some JavaScript
that's going to be activated.
You're even gonna see how we can
call things on the server or
the client from a plugin.
We're gonna do all sorts of things where
you can see exactly by which directory
which are well named, what we're extending
this view framework to do with next.
It has great organization and that was
kind of like what I was explaining before
you can jump in and
you can see exactly where everything lays.
I did mention that we use treeshaking.
And I just wanna give a small
example of treeshaking.
I mentioned this in the other course but
it bears repeating if you didn't
watch the other other course.
So let's say I'm working with lodash,
and lodash has all of these nice methods,
that we're allowed to use in it.
Now, if I'm using lodash, and
I'm really only using tall and union,
I can use treeshaking to get rid of all of
the methods that I'm not using anymore.
This is really important because as a nuxt
app grows, it's going to always make
sure that you're only using the bits
that are absolutely necessary to you.
And it's gonna remove anything that you're
not using, the second you're using it,
it's still available to you.
And the new version of view
has been written in a way that
everything is tree shakable.
So the combination of
both is pretty powerful.